## [Pages](/blog/2017-02-11-pages)

Until now the server has only been serving the `first.md` file directly, but that needs to change. I have decided to separate the files that make up the website into two folders, `pages` and `assets`.

`pages` should contain only markdown files, every file should be a page, and it's path in the folder will be it's url.

`assets` should contain files that should be served "as is", like images, css-files and perhaps js-files down the line.

I had originally decided that the `pages` folder was going to be called `content` but i changed my mind.

## Pages First

So, this is the plan.

1. Create the pages folder.
2. Move all the `.md` files into it.
3. make it work?

Step 1 and 2 went pretty fast, now for step 3. The current code does not immediately reveal to me how to go about this, but i guess we need to change the route somehow and the Rocket docs can help me with that. Currently the route is `#[get("/")]`.

After skimming through the Rocket docs about routes I come to the [Multiple Segments Section](https://rocket.rs/guide/requests/#multiple-segments) which seems to be exactly what i want. I must say I am impressed with how easy Rocket is making this. Anyway the snippet looks like this:

```rust
#[get("/<file..>")]
fn files(file: PathBuf) -> Option<NamedFile> {
    NamedFile::open(Path::new("static/").join(file)).ok()
}
```

And now its time to integrate it into the index function. I also wonder what the value is if the path is just `/`, will it find some index file by it self?

I update the function signature but apparently `PathBuf` is not found in the scope. The error in VSCode cuts of the help text that explains where to get it. ~~I really should file an issue about it.~~ [I filed an issue about it.](https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/rls-vscode/issues/255)

Blogging + coding is not very fast.

My first thought was to print the `PathBuf` to the console, to see what it contained. But that leads to a pretty slow feedback loop so i read a little bit of the [documentation of `PathBuf`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/path/struct.PathBuf.html) and apparently you can set the extension on it, which i guess we want to do. So i will do that as well.

```rust
#[get("/<path..>")]
fn index(mut path: PathBuf) -> Result<Html<String>, NotFound<String>> {
    path.set_extension(".md");
    println!("{:?}", path);

    let mut md_contents = String::new();
    File::open(path)
        .map_err(|e| NotFound(format!("{}", e)))?
        .read_to_string(&mut md_contents)
        .map_err(|e| NotFound(format!("{}", e)))?;
```

So this is where were at, looks like it's compiled with out problems. If it "just works" its magic.

It didn't quite work. Going to the root `/` didn't work cause i guess that's not really a path anyway. `/first` didn't work either, it found the route but not the file `No such file or directory (os error 2)`. The problem is I forgot about the pages folder. Oops. But that means `/pages/first` should work right?

It does not.

I checked the printout of the `PathBuf` and it says `pages/first`. I moved the `println!` to be after the call to `set_extension` but it still says the same. So i check the docs and it seems the extension should not contain a dot.

It works! Magic!

But we still need to do something to "mount" the pages folder at the root. The snippet from the rocket docs looks like it can help us with that.

Success! This is what it looks like:

```rust
#[get("/<path..>")]
fn index(mut path: PathBuf) -> Result<Html<String>, NotFound<String>> {
    println!("{:?}", path);
    path.set_extension("md");

    let mut md_contents = String::new();
    File::open(Path::new("pages/").join(path))
        .map_err(|e| NotFound(format!("{}", e)))?
        .read_to_string(&mut md_contents)
        .map_err(|e| NotFound(format!("{}", e)))?;
```

If we can make the path argument optional, we don't have to create another route for the index. With some fiddling I got it to compile, but the route still does not match the index. So i guess a separate route for index is what we want, for now.

```rust
#[get("/")]
fn index() -> Result<Html<String>, NotFound<String>> {
    page(PathBuf::from("index"))
}

#[get("/<path..>")]
fn page(mut path: PathBuf) -> Result<Html<String>, NotFound<String>> {
    path.set_extension("md");

    let mut md_contents = String::new();
    File::open(Path::new("pages/").join(path))
        .map_err(|e| NotFound(format!("{}", e)))?
        .read_to_string(&mut md_contents)
        .map_err(|e| NotFound(format!("{}", e)))?;
```

It works!

## Tuning the pages

I created an `index.md` file to have as a landing page and put all the posts in a blog folder. I links to all the posts so you can read from beginning to end. And also an `<h1>` to the template so you can always get back to the landing page.

All this link editing is making me realize why most people don't handwrite them. Perhaps in the future i can figure out some smart plugin to do those kinds of things.

## What's Next

* Still no `assets` but i'll save that for later.
* Having browsed around the site a little bit i feel like the font size could go up a bit.
* And perhaps the color of the headers that are links can be changed to match the non-header links, but still keep the underline.
* No deployment yet either
